OK. Yeah.
Not gonna lead. Thanks.
Yeah, I I can do that.
Julia.
Hi, everyone. Hi, Raj. It's been a while.
How have you been? Good to see you too.
Uh, good to see you again. Yeah, I'm, I'm,
I'm good. Thanks. Yeah. Um,
thanks for arranging this call.
Of course, no worries. Nathan.
I saw he's online,
so he should be joining as well.
OK, great.
Yes, Nathan.
Hi, Nathan.
Hello, how are you?
Anything.
Yeah, good. Good to see you again.
Yeah, same.
It looks, uh,
IT looks pretty dark on your side.
It's A. little early.
It's it's six in the morning here,
OK.
but not not too bad. Not too bad.
And I'm also at home.
The lighting in my home is pretty
terrible. Sorry about that.
OK. No,
I appreciate you waking up early to take
this this call.
So Darren's on the line but he's he's in
Yeah, no problem.
A.
car So but I'm I'm sure he'll he'll he'd
want us to say hi and and thank you as
well and then also on the.
I think there's A.
number of people you guys haven't met or
maybe some of you have only met.
So Raymond heads up the emerging markets
team. He's on the call there.
Ryan's part of the developed markets team.
Pyle's on the call, I can see.
He works with Raymond on emerging markets.
We've got June and David who work in our
Hi everyone.
data science Team and yeah,
So just wanted to get Back in touch and
again learn A.
bit more about the Starmine platform and.
And there might be a slight overlap with
some of the conversation that we had last
year in November. But yeah,
we've been doing a bit more thinking
around Starmine.
I know our colleagues in Mubadala have
been using it and have spoken very highly
of their.
Their,
you know that that the portfolios that
they're running and how they're
integrating it into,
you know what they do.
So we wanted to take another look at this
and so maybe just to, you know,
just to set the context, it would be good.
To just focus on the CAM score and give a
brief background on CAM, what it is,
a little bit of the evolution.
The team have had access to, you know,
the notes that we wrote from last time.
So we don't have to go through all of the
detail,
but just hearing it again would be a good
starting point.
OK.
And then, yeah,
we've got a number of other questions
which we can lead on to after that.
Yeah, sounds good.
I'll go ahead and just jump in then.
And yeah,
if any of this is too much of A repeat
from last time, let me know.
We're happy to, you know,
to adjust as necessary.
I can share some slides,
Sure.
but maybe not totally necessary if we're
just looking for a.
A real quick discussion.
Give me one second.
My apologies if any of this is overlap
from last time.
I'll, I'll try and uh,
coordinate on our side. Um and uh, yeah,
I'll let you know if we need to move a
bit faster or slower.
OK.
Sounds good. So, so in general,
I mean it's hard to start talking about
CAN without giving you just a one-minute
overview of Starmine.
We were founded in 1998 in San Francisco.
It's basically the the premise that the
company was founded on is that you can
measure sell-side analyst accuracy,
which you know in retrospect doesn't
sound like like that novel of an idea
necessarily.
Necessarily,
but the people who started Starmind,
you know,
made a decent career out of it and it
still still seems to be true in that you
can measure sell-side accuracy and still
seems to be true in that sell-side
analyst accuracy is persistent.
So you know,
if accuracy wasn't persistent,
if analysts just flip-flopped every year
from being.
The best to the worst,
the best to the worst,
then none of this would actually matter.
But that's that's not true.
Generally speaking,
it's a persistent skill.
So if you're a better analyst 1/4 or one
year,
you're likely to be better the next year.
And So what we do is we give, you know,
Mhm.
we we basically look at.
An analyst's track record both for
estimates and recommendations.
You know what,
what were their estimates for quarters?
And then when as those actuals come out,
you can look at what their error was
throughout the whole quarter and assign,
you know,
use some sort of algorithm to assign them
overall ranking.
Compared against their peers and
primarily,
primarily with estimate accuracy,
we're looking at basically just how close
did you get to that actual number and how
soon did you get there.
So if you think of like an absolute
percent error at every day over 1/4,
if you were more,
if you were quicker to revise your
estimates towards the actual, if you.
Integrated that whole error over the
whole quarter or summed it up on every
single day.
You would get a lower number if you were
more accurate sooner.
And so that's more or less what our
accuracy scores are doing.
There's a couple adjustments in there for
things like stock volatility or the
spread distribution of estimates.
Whether it's like a easier stock to
predict earnings or revenue for or or
more difficult,
but overall that that's the gist of our
accuracy score.
And then once we have that accuracy score,
it's great because you can put it into a
smart estimate, so.
Whereas normally with the consensus
you're just taking the simple average of
all analysts and getting this number for,
you know,
earnings or revenue or cash flow or
whatever it may be, whatever measure.
Now you don't just have to do the simple
earnings,
you can overweight the better performing
analysts and underweight the poor
performing analysts and that's on a
measure by measure basis.
You know,
some analysts are better at predicting
revenues,
some are better at predicting earnings.
And so, yeah,
and and that's exactly what we do.
This is a screenshot from Workspace of
our of sort of detail of our smart
estimate where you can see these earnings,
accuracy scores,
what the current estimate is for these
particular analysts.
Their names are grayed out,
but what you know what their estimates
Mhm.
are, how different it is from the mean.
But but really the the farthest right
column here is the weight that goes into
the smart estimate versus what everything
will go into a cluster.
And so those weights are a function of
the analyst accuracy,
how recent the estimate is and whether or
not there have been a revision cluster.
So you get analysts revising in the.
Same direction in a short period of time,
we sort of detect that as a revision
cluster.
We assume that means that new information
has entered the market if a bunch of
analysts are revising in the same
direction. And so for the smart estimate,
we'll we'll throw out any estimate that
occurred prior to that new information
hitting the market.
Does that all make sense so far?
I think everyone should be with me.
Mhm.
Cool.
So we have the smart estimates and then
Yeah.
once.
So once you have estimates you know for
forward-looking line items from the
income statement,
you can use those estimates that are
slightly better than consensus into your
various models and it turns out you know
better inputs into models.
You can yield better results.
And so then over the years,
after these smart estimates were
developed,
we've got more into the business of
developing these classic quantitative
factor models, all very, very popular.
You know,
analyst revisions is probably our bread
and butter. This is.
It's a model that is trying to predict
forward analyst revision.
So it's the whole earnings revision
anomaly, you know,
earnings revision tend to serially
correlate.
If you get upward or downward revisions
throughout a quarter,
you're likely to get more of those for a
couple of different reasons.
One is that you'll get those follow,
you know,
sort of less quick analysts following.
I making.
Revisions in the same direction and also
from a single analyst perspective,
one analyst is less likely to take a
giant jump in the revision.
They're likely to nibble a little bit
more at it and revise over time.
And so you get these, you know,
follow on analyst revisions,
serially correlated.
And so the whole idea is that we're
predicting those future analyst revisions.
And then the alpha comes from, you know,
contemporaneous alpha as those future
analysts are revising.
Real quick explanation. So that that.
Nathan,
can I just maybe jump forward and then we
Yeah, absolutely.
can come back to this this point.
So the combined alpha that you've got
Mm.
under combination models,
that's what we're talking about the CAM,
right?
Exactly, yeah.
And and the reason I'm getting into these
OK.
is because that's exactly right.
Combined alpha is Cam.
The reason I'm talking about the
underlying models is cause it's really
just a linear combination of these
underlying models is the idea.
And can you just quickly point out on
this screen which ones contribute to to
Cam?
Yeah, it is. It's,
it's all these on the left,
the top two left boxes.
So the classic quant factors,
analyst revisions, price momentum,
relative and intrinsic valuation,
Yeah.
earnings quality.
And then on the inside we have on the on
the US side,
we have short interest inside our filings.
That's from like 13 F filings.
And smart, I'm sorry, not 13 S,
it's from the the filings of corporate
insiders and their transactions and then
smart holdings which is based on 13 FS.
So all of these,
these two that say US or for US only
stocks whereas everything else would go
into it.
And you you started the the conversation
talking about smart estimates is is is
Mhm.
that included in the Cam?
You if you subscribe to CAM,
you get the underlying models,
the actual smart estimates.
So if you wanted the the both the what
the smart estimate is and the detail like
the individual analysts and their
accuracy scores,
that's all available as part of an IBIS
package I believe. So so IBIS handles.
Mhm.
Those calculations.
Now I don't think you get the the
detailed smart estimates with Cam,
but you will with Ibis.
OK, but what I meant was the CAM score,
the CAM rating rankings is that is is it
Mhm.
indirectly yet being fueled by the smart
estimates?
Is in. Yes, it does.
It incorporates smart estimates.
Absolutely. Yep.
And it in in in so much as,
as I mentioned,
it's a linear combination of these models
and I can get into a little bit how each
one of these models incorporates the
smart estimates.
So analyst revision,
that's really just looking at it does
incorporate smart estimates.
So I think, sorry,
I I think Raymond had a had a question.
E.
Oh yeah, please, please go ahead.
I'm just flying through. Sorry.
Yeah, yeah.
Ross was kind of beginning to touch on
this as well.
But if you go to the like that smart
money section, the US insider filings,
US short interest,
does that mean that or have you seen that
the CAM aspect of the models or the CAM
scores tend to be more predictive in the
US than they are outside?
Side of the US because you extra Intel in
those markets.
Excuse me, have that? Yeah,
that's a good question.
I I'm not entirely sure that's the case.
You know,
if you're just talking about
predictability by looking at like
information coefficient or the backtest
performance, generally speaking,
in less liquid markets,
you could get CAM performing a little
better. That being said,
it still does perform very.
Well, like US large caps in the US.
So you know,
that would be a bit of a research study
to say is it more predictive in the US?
I don't think that would hold out,
but certainly we do find that including
those models does improve performance.
You know, we wouldn't include the models,
but didn't.
Improves the performance in the US,
but I'm not sure.
I think fighting sort of fighting against
the market efficiency in the USI would be
hesitant to say it's performs better in
the US.
Thank you.
Certainly we can look at all those
backtest results, you know,
OK.
in the white paper we report them all
globally by region, et cetera, et cetera.
So yeah, we can, we can look at all that.
But does that any any other questions?
All right. So real quick. OK, cool.
So sorry, I have my slides up.
No, I think I think we're good.
I'm not looking at the actual meeting,
you know,
the meeting attendees from the slides. So,
so how how are smart estimates
Yeah.
incorporated into this model?
Analyst revisions incorporate smart.
It's it's generally looking at the change
in both consensus.
In both consensus and smart estimates as
analysts are revising.
But there's this other notion I don't
think I've talked about yet called
predicted surprise,
which is just the difference between our
percent difference between our smart
estimate and the consensus.
So you know if you have a predicted
surprise greater than 2%,
we're basically saying we think at the
actual release time the number will come.
And closer to our smart estimate than it
will to the consensus.
And so that we get the direction of those
surprises right about 70% of the time.
If it's if the predicted surprise is
greater than 2%,
then we can get the direction right 70%
of the time.
So that that's how the smart estimates
are included in annual revisions via this
OK.
predicted surprise.
It's a notion also with analysts
revisions of if the predicted surprise is
0,
that means the smart estimate and the
consensus are matching, you know,
identically and that we interpret that as
being there's there's really not much
room for the follow on analysts to revise
further.
And so that's how it works in the ARM.
If you have a higher predicted surprise,
the consensus and the smart estimate are
quite different,
which means you know the you're getting
some difference in what the better
analysts and the poor performing analysts
are saying about the stock.
And so we expect there to be room for
those those slower analysts to revise
further.
Price momentum,
that doesn't really have smart estimates
OK.
in it.
That's really just simple price momentum
and industry price momentum over
different time periods that are
aggregated together,
whether you're looking at long term like
a year or more or short term like a week
or less,
short term being more of a reversal
signal, long term,
medium term being you know.
Momentum signal.
Those are all sort of just aggregated
into one price momentum signal and our
valuation model.
That's where these smart estimates really
start to like take center stage in the
model construction.
So the relative valuation,
let me pull up a.
Sweet.
Here's here's relative valuation.
With relative valuation,
you know we're really looking at these
six valuation ratios across companies.
But the idea for this model is we we
incorporate both backward looking and
forward-looking into the model.
So you know if you you could report
numbers for earnings.
From 365 days ago, but it's the best one,
the last reported actual you have on tap
and if you're using that as your earnings
and your price to earnings,
it could be well out of date.
So we blend the both the as reported
ratios as well as the forward-looking
using the smart estimate.
So we have you know,
smart estimates for every one of these.
Line items and then we can look at blend
the backward looking and the
forward-looking together into multiple,
you know multiple different measures into
the overall score.
That's how Smart Estimates goes into
relative valuation,
intrinsic valuation or other valuation
model.
You know this is more like you can think
of discount cash flow model we use
specifically we're.
Using discount dividend model and the
whole reason we use discount dividend is
because dividends are easier to predict,
less error in the in the estimates for
dividends than for cash flow.
Cash flow is tricky, high,
high error in like estimates of cash flow.
So but what we can do,
we're actually pretty good at predicting
earning streams out.
5 to 10 years.
So you have you know from the sell side
analysts you have smart estimates usually
for FY1FY2 sometimes FY3.
But then we apply sort of some growth
formulas to these overall streams,
different company profiles.
So you know how young or how mature of a
company you are to get this.
Dividend stream basically 15 years into
the future and then some terminal value
and that forms the basis of our intrinsic
value model.
Nathan, just on on this particular model,
how do you deal with companies that don't
Mhm.
pay dividends?
Right. We we we sort, we assume dividends.
So it certainly gives scores for
companies that don't pay dividends.
I believe it's the first.
I'll have to double check the exact time
3,
three or five years for companies that
don't pay dividends.
We still assume they're not paying
dividends and then what we do is a payout
ratio based on the earnings.
Their their projected future earnings.
So it's relatively consistent payout
ratios and I believe they ramp up for a
non payer. They'll start at,
I forget the exact percent of what
earnings get paid out,
but basically it's a pseudo dividend
stream that we're estimating based on the
age of the company what in from the
earnings exactly.
From the earnings.
OK.
And companies that are like for example
Yeah.
biotech where the the whole business
model is just very unlikely to generate
earnings or or dividends,
how does the model handle that?
Mhm, mhm.
It well,
there's not special handling for any
particular stock or industry.
It's true that a lot of these tech names
don't actually come out as value plays,
right? When you're looking at them,
they're they tend to be massively
overpriced, you know,
from a from a dividend.
Yeah.
Perspective,
but it's still the handling is still the
exact same where it's you know we are
assuming or we have a sort of a pseudo
dividend stream based on payout ratios,
age of the company and earnings
And earnings, OK.
projections, yeah.
I'd have some. I'm off the top of my head.
I don't have the the exact payout ratios.
So I I make.
Yeah.
You know,
I know it's a bit of a formula where it
starts low and then ramps up I think to
to 15% by year 15 or something like this,
but I I had to double check the details,
yeah.
OK.
Maybe it's something you can get back to
us.
I'd I'd be interested in because there
there is a large population of stocks
that just will never generate, you know,
at least a gap earnings.
And so even if you apply a payout ratio,
it does it, it doesn't amount to anything.
Mhm, mhm.
So knowing how you deal with those
companies.
I think would would be helpful.
Yeah,
I can look into that and get back to you
in some more detail.
OK.
I mean,
I I do think the Long story short is we
are modeling earnings from them at some
point in in using that, you know, we,
OK.
yeah.
And I'm sorry, how much,
how much detail do you go into that
intrinsic model? As in is, is it,
do you give a blueprint that somebody
could actually go away and just
completely, you know, model it ourselves?
Absolutely. And in fact,
in workspace there is some functionality
Yeah.
where you can import your own.
There's a screenshot here.
You won't be able to see it.
I don't think it's probably too low,
but the screenshot from workspace you can
actually model your.
Change values for your own like growth
projections,
earnings projections and dividend
payments and and and play with it that
Mhm.
way. And then yeah,
in terms of the white paper,
we go into quite,
quite a lot the intrinsic valuation model
in terms of I I think we try to be as
clear box as possible, you know there's.
OK.
Certain like tweaking of parameters we
don't talk about specifically or you know
certain setting of parameters we don't
give you the the secret sauce.
But but by and large we do try to in our
white papers give you as much of the
detail where you really could build the
model if you wanted to from the
underlying data.
I mean that that's a win for us as well.
All the data is Lsig data so.
So if you take the data and build the
model, that's great for us.
Or if you just take the model and don't
want to build it yourselves,
that's that's also great for us.
And then real quick going back to the the
other models, real quick description.
So we're talking about momentum valuation
revisions, earnings quality.
This is a model basically just of
likelihood of persistence of earnings
into the future. So things like accruals,
you know high accruals.
And leads to earnings that that don't
tend to persist or low operating
efficiency leads to earnings that don't
tend to persist.
So it's basically a model of, you know,
operating efficiency and accruals and
whether or not we think your earnings
will continue into the future or whether
or not we think they've been manipulated
a bit.
Yeah,
into something that is likely to not
Mhm.
continue.
For this, the smart money, smart holding.
So this is looking at 13 and the US,
you know,
institutions file 13 F's for their
quarterly positions.
And so we can look at what these
companies are buying and selling on a
quarterly basis.
Obviously they're doing transactions.
You know, they don't show up on quarterly,
but we're looking at the slower
institutions on a quarterly basis.
We can see what they buy and bought and
sold.
And from that we reverse engineer their
preference for different factors,
you know,
like whether or not they're preferring
value stocks,
whether or not they're preferring
momentum stocks.
And then once we have those preferences
for.
The fund managers across all fund
managers,
we literally hold up the characteristic
of every individual stock to these
preferences and are grading on how
attractive we think it would be to
institutions in the future based on their
past purchases. Short interest,
that's very simple. You know,
that's looking at, you know, high level,
basically a sentiment model.
Levels of short interest are negative
sentiment.
That data comes directly from the
exchanges, the NICE and NASDAQ.
They think they publish that biweekly
every two weeks and that what goes into
the model and then insider filings.
You know,
insiders at companies tend to behave as
value investors.
When they think their stock's low,
they buy more.
When they think their stock's overpriced,
they're willing to sell.
And so the insiders filing model is
looking at that as sort of a value signal
and then adjusting for things like stock
compensation, et cetera. So those are the,
OK.
those are the underlying models that all
go into both Valmo or combined alpha.
You asked a little bit about the
evolution, so.
You.
Momentum was our first combination model
and this all just comes from, you know,
clients used to ask us years ago. Well,
we have all these models,
sometimes they're giving different scores
like drastically different scores.
Which one do I believe?
How do I incorporate them?
And so we basically just put it all
together in a very simple linear
multifactor model and that the first
iteration of that was value.
Momentum that's still around,
but I don't think anyone really takes
that anymore because combined alpha was
released in 2015 is the is the newest
version.
And so you know combined alpha that
benefits from a lot of these signals
being anti-correlated the more
anti-correlation you.
Anti-correlated positive IC signals you
can add into your multi-factor model,
the the better you'll tend to actually do.
You know some excuse me,
you can see intrinsic valuation and
relative valuation obviously very
correlated inside our filing.
As I mentioned,
it tends to correlate to value signals,
so not hugely correlated, but.
It is a little bit.
It tends to be more of a value play
because insiders act like value investors
and then ARM analyst revisions is a
little bit more of a momentum signal.
You know that serial correlation analyst
revisions definitely is a very similar
phenomenon to like in price momentum
continuing.
And there's simple for CAN.
There's simple linear combinations.
We do the, you know,
a little bit of the I won't even say IP,
but besides just keeping the weight
static across all regions, we finally, oh,
I'm sorry,
we find that the US tends to be slightly
more.
Value tends to be slightly more important
in Japan and US,
and so in the US for example,
values overweighted compared to momentum
signals less on price momentum in Japan
and the US,
whereas it's 20% in other regions,
so less on our.
And Nathan,
you you you arrived at these weights back
in 2015, is that correct?
And they've they've remained static since
That's correct, yeah.
that time and you've got no intention of
of changing them.
Yep, that's correct.
So you know we we provide the underlying
Yeah.
model score.
So if anybody really wanted to change
them,
it would be a it would be a pretty easy
task to come up with your own CAM score
with by adjusting the weights yourselves.
There is a bit of an internal push I will
say to come up with an API where you
could submit your own weights and get the
model score back based on the weights you
want.
So if that's something you're interested
in there, you know, it's a bit,
it's still in early stages,
but our product people are talking about
doing something like that. And in fact,
they believe that's kind of the future of
our models is that they'd be accessible
over API and more configurable based on
weights of either the underlying
components that you'd want to change or
the underlying models.
So if it's it can is what we're talking
about.
OK. Nathan,
we we we've just got a question from Kyle.
Mhm.
Yeah, thanks. I just,
I just had a quick question on kind of
the underlying models and the components
within them.
Have they kind of have you tweaked them
since 2015 or or made any changes to the
underlying components of the model?
We by and large no there there's a couple
caveats.
So in 20 excuse me in 2021 ARM we re
released a new version of ARM analyst
revisions to be intraday.
So analyst revisions used to always be
end of day.
We switched so the whole all the.
Underlying data got switched to real time
sources like a real time Ibis sources,
whereas before we were taking end of day
feeds and so we spent about it was
probably a year and a half reengineering
the model on the real time data,
but the algorithm for the model stayed
perfectly the same and in fact a large
part of like that year was spent.
Reconciling the two versions of the model
to make sure that the the new intraday
version was as close as possible to the
the algorithm hasn't changed.
A little bit of the underlying data
change,
the timeliness of the underlying data
changed,
and by and large they're they're very
similar.
And then just so that's a slight,
a slight difference that was released in
2021,
but as I mentioned the model stayed
perfectly the same and we have a white
paper route that that basically
reconciles the new version of analyst
provisions with the old version,
how different they are,
but but by and large we're trying to keep
And and sorry, you switched,
you switched to the new one in CAM in
them identical and then just.
2021 as well.
Oh, that's a good point. No, no, no,
I'm sorry.
That's the in CAM is still using both
versions are still available and CAM is
No.
using the end of day version. So yeah,
and the CAM formulation is the end of day
OK.
version.
You could get the intro data if you
wanted, you know, if you just wanted that.
Yeah, you could.
You could build it yourself with with
Um.
those weights, yeah.
Right, indeed.
I don't think that'd be necessary.
We clients ask for intraday arm because
they want those analytic provisions as
quickly as possible,
although in back testing etcetera found
very I found very,
very little benefit to getting an
intraday version of the signal versus.
Is an end of day version of the signal
you know you and and.
OK. But so OK,
so just just going back to Payal's
question within within Cam,
have any of the underlying signals
changed?
They they have not. Yeah, they have not.
The the other,
Yeah.
the other model that just we released a
new version of but but not in CAM is the
smart holdings.
So you know smart holdings we have.
There's different factors.
We're looking at the fund manager
preferences.
And so previously we looked at at 30
factors or something and what they're
preferring.
And then just recently we released a
version that incorporates ESG factors as
well,
whether or not anyone's trading on these
like social.
Mhm.
Governance, environmental factors,
but but as to your point, not in can.
You could get that separately, but OK.
So another question then it if you
continue to innovate and come up with new
signals or even newer versions of the
signals we see here,
you you don't intend to put that IP into
CAM,
Mm-hmm.
you would just treat them as new
underlying signals.
Yeah, definitely.
Certainly on a first basis,
Independent.
maybe years down the line,
we want to come up with some new version
of Cam and it'd be likely that would be
also be released in parallel.
We're never going to pull the rug out.
So we're very cognizant.
Mm.
We once our models are live in production,
we don't want to change them.
And that's our philosophy.
We want true out of sample history live
OK.
and then that's how we've always done it.
So if we came up with another great model
OK.
and it performed very well,
I could see years in the future we
incorporate it into a combined model,
but I don't think they would ever change
Cam.
More likely there'd be A.
version of Cam plus or something like
Yeah.
Yeah, or 22.0 or something like that.
I think that's the name you had before
this, you know?
Yeah.
Exactly, yeah.
you used.
OK, so there is some risk for Cam.
Becoming a bit of a legacy signal as you
develop, you know, new.
Yeah, I mean, So to be honest with you,
we're we're very slow in developing new
models. Like our research happens A.
lot faster than our engineering.
And So we have like pipelines of research
ideas, pipelines of research ideas, well,
OK.
research ideas that have failed,
but also research ideas that proved to be
good. But IT honestly takes us, you know.
Over A. year or more to engineer A.
new model to get you know all our
engineering resources are corporate.
We have to like get get in queue and wait
Mhm.
for them.
So and CAM is is still probably ONE of
our but ARM and CAM are our two most
popular flagship models.
So I I honestly would say there's not A.
lot of risk in can.
Yeah.
But CAT Cam Cam is fixed.
There's going to be no no improvement or
no enhancements to Cam that it is what it
is since 2015.
That's correct, yes.
Yeah, Ryan's got a question.
Mhm.
Hey, Nathan,
is it correct that that CAM uses all of
the equity models that you had at the
time in 2015?
So there's the seven models that you're
showing here and the underlying signals
within each of those and then have you?
Yeah.
Created new models since then that do not
exist within CAM.
Yes, that is accurate. The new,
the only new model I think we've really
released since then besides the as I
mentioned the the interday analyst
revisions,
the newest smart holdings that includes
ESG, but.
As we talked about Noncam,
there's this market psych media sentiment
model. So market psych is A.
third party partner we have.
We've worked with them for years and
years and years. I used to work A.
lot with their news analytic products and
they were all doing our social media
sentiment.
So they've come up with this model sort
of in conjunction with us.
They did primarily the modeling.
And then we did A.
lot of oversight on IT that we sell as A.
Starmind media sentiment model,
looking at both news and social media
sentiment and then but that's not in Cam,
but that would be the only ONE that I
think besides the new flavors of the old
model already mentioned.
That has come out and is not in Cam.
OK.
Another question for you is in in your
original weighting for the different
regions, the the the models,
Mhm.
what what were you seeking to achieve
when there's in this weighting approach,
were you seeking to optimize for sort of
efficacy of different?
Models at the time in these different
regions or sort of was it more intuition
based?
How did you come up with these weightings
Yeah, yeah.
and and are they a bit,
could you argue they're a bit stale?
You could argue they're, well,
you you could argue they're stale if you
wanted something faster.
Generally what we're doing is we're
looking at our full as long of A.
backtest period as as we can.
So we're looking for something that works
broadly across time periods of market
regimes,
not something that's fine-tuned to those
individual time periods.
And So yeah,
you could look into updating these
weights for Cam, but by and large,
what we were trying to optimize were
information coefficients over our entire
Back testing, you know,
20 years of Back testing history when
this was done in 2015.
Team.
There was, to your point,
there an argument we had internally as a
research group.
I remember this clearly was that I think
Cam,
let me pull up the performance numbers.
The.
US top 3000 long short.
So Cam there are in periods where value
didn't doesn't work well.
So looking here at 2017 through 2020.
So this is only 10 years.
Sorry about that, but.
I remember in this time period our value
signals really weren't working great and
that was pulling CAM down as well.
I mean that value across the markets
wasn't working great.
It wasn't just our signals and that was
pulling CAM down a little bit.
And we were had an internal debate
whether or not we over optimized during
the financial crisis. So during.
You know that is that was in our backtest
period. It's not out of sample,
it was in sample,
you know financial crisis 2008,
2009 and the value signals saved you a
little bit then and I think in in the US
as you see we as I mentioned we we
overweighted value a little bit Japan and
the US.
And that does help the signal a lot
during the financial crisis.
And so when value wasn't performing,
we were internally worried that we
overfit to, you know,
financial crisis time periods or came up
with something that worked too well
during the crisis time periods and not
otherwise.
Since then,
that hasn't really been the case.
So as long as value seems to be working
in the market,
you know there's a post 20/21/2022 you
you start to or like in this time period
you start to see these papers out there
about is the value factor dead, et cetera,
et cetera.
So we were worried about the same thing,
but you know post COVID,
it's really come back on value trade
strong and.
It looks like our model trades well as
well.
So the whole idea is it's a long backtest
period.
We really weren't trying to overfit on
any specific time period.
We were worried about that a little bit,
but generally speaking, you know,
if you take a longer term view,
it it seems to work.
Nathan, this is a useful slide.
Could you explain what the units are,
what it's what it's showing?
It looks like it's a long short portfolio.
Oh, yes. So you, yeah, exactly.
So we're looking at long top decile,
short bottom decile and these would be
average annual returns of that decile
spread. Universe is long only obviously.
So this is US top 3000,
that's just equal weighted universe
return.
And then this is the the decile spread
returns of our individual.
Models and then Cam as well.
The universe return. That's not alpha,
is it? That's just absolute return.
Yeah,
it's equal weighted return of the US top
3000 stocks basically in those years.
Long only.
And so here we're comparing long short to
this long only universe.
And I've got one more slide of you of
long only US top 3000 where we're just
long the top decile.
It's basically the performance of the top
decile of these model scores.
And just to confirm, this is not alpha,
this is absolute returns. Is that right?
The absolute returns a decile spread,
yeah.
Thank you.
That's right.
So you know a simple alpha would be to
subtract specifically for long only.
If you just subtract the universe score
from the from the model,
from the model return,
the universe return from the model return,
you'll get your excess returns. You know,
simple, simple alpha.
So every I'm sorry,
everywhere it's marked green.
I believe it's where it's outperformed
the years it's outperformed the equal
weighted universe.
Sorry,
would long only be just going long the
top decile?
Yeah, that's that's correct.
So yeah, that's,
I mean that is really the the quickest
Cam spiel I can give.
It sounds like you do want some more
information on the on the ID model.
I can now I'll dig that up specifically
about the low dividend payers or
companies we expect not to pay dividends
or possibly not even profitable companies.
And then also I believe there was an
e-mail thread with a couple of canned
questions about the model scores and the
precision.
Yeah, just.
Yes, yeah. Does it? Does it?
Does it go to multiple decimal places?
It does not. So it it's even stored.
I I checked with the underlying
engineering teams, even stored,
we stored as integers there.
The main reason for that is we we aren't
trying to declare a difference, you know,
a score between 90.1 and 90.2.
We don't really think that's meaningful.
Honestly,
even a score difference between 90 and 91
is is tough to say if it's meaningful.
You know,
we're all trying to get that
cross-sectional,
the information coefficient,
the how well we can rank these things in
the cross-section in any given month end
and and.
achieves that. But yeah,
we don't have the decimal precision,
nor do we think it would be a reasonable
signal. I shouldn't say reason. I mean,
ultimately, you need something, right,
to to break those ties.
What I would suggest for breaking the
ties is looking at either the sector or
industry rank.
So we both rank in the region,
the overall CAM score,
Score is a region rank.
We also provide within the region in your
industry or your sector,
and so those will be a little bit.
There's still 1 to 100 integers,
but you get a little more discernibility
across the universe if you did a second
sort on the industry or sector rank score.
And sorry,
do do you know how things are ranked then
within workspace? Because yeah.
Yeah, that's a great question.
I actually that's a it's a UI issue and I
talked to those guys.
They confirm there is not decimal
precision in off the top of my head.
I don't know what it's using to to rank
them in workspace to break the ties in
workspace. Whether it's random,
it probably seems like it's not random
sort, right?
Whether it's alphabetical or what?
Uh.
But I'm sorry, I don't know,
but it seems like there's not an
underlying decimal precision that it's
using.
I got.
Did somebody find out how that works?
Yeah,
I mean that is I've I've asked the people
that would know and it's that's very much
a a user interface engineer that I would
need to I need to rustle up and and and
get and see what the answer is,
but which I've tried to do but haven't
gotten any decent confirmation back yet
what's going on there.
OK, that that it's it.
It is as strange as it sounds that that's
an important question for us. Thanks.
OK. OK. Yeah, yeah.
So actually I've got a great follow-up
question about your suggestion, Daniel,
about the the second sort on the sector
rank. As far as I'm under,
Mhm.
as far as I know,
the sector rank is the relative,
it's a percentile rank.
Within that specific sector,
meaning if you've got the let's say US
universe and The thing is there's no
guarantee that the let's there's a tie
between let's say Apple and the Walmart.
The thing is I don't think the 2nd
ordering,
the second or second level ordering on
the sector level and then saying like oh
because Apple has got Apple.
Is like 100,
whereas the Walmart is 90 Apple should go
up.
I don't think that sort of a ordering
I would, yeah,
I I I see what you're saying.
wouldn't.
Those are those are calculated way
further upstream when there's still a
decimal precision within engineering. So,
so they shouldn't be the same.
If you look at if you have a 90 for Apple
and a 90 for Nvidia or something like
that, those sector ranks still could be.
You're not just taking them,
you're not ranking that 90 within the
sector, you're ranking.
What's getting ranked is some float in
engineering prior to that.
So I I see what you're saying is you you
can't rank integers and actually get any
any more information in breaking those
ties, right?
But at the point where the sorry,
go ahead.
Yeah.
No, I mean what I'm saying is that,
so let's say we were first ordering on
the country rank and then we're trying to
do the second ordering on the sector rank.
Mhm.
But The thing is the sector rank
depending on the which sector does the
security belong is you can't really
compare the sector rank of the technology
Mhm.
against you know the retail if that.
It makes sense if if you've got the two
different securities you know under tie,
Oh.
but one is from different,
each different securities are coming from
the different industries,
then comparing that as a second order.
I don't.
I know you suggested that there is,
but still I'm just you know.
Uh, asking you whether that's uh,
you know, um.
Yeah, I understand. I understand.
Whether or not it is useful to do that,
I feel like is an empirical question that
I haven't dug into.
So there there there is no reason you can.
I would push back on the fact saying you
can't compare those ranks within the
sector. In fact,
clients that want to do sector neutrality
would take the top deciles from a sector
rank, right,
to ensure that you get the population
across every single sector.
So if you took a top decile across the
global rank, you're likely to.
You will have certain pile ups in certain
sectors.
If you take the top decile across the
sector ranks,
you will get equal representation in all
the sectors.
So I agree it's a research question
whether or not.
That does a good job of breaking ties,
but I don't think it's necessarily true
that you cannot compare them.
I think the whole idea is that you can,
even though they're ranked within sectors
and those sectors are different for
different stocks.
The idea for the sector industry ranks is
that you would achieve neutrality across
sectors if you use those ranks.
OK. Thank you so much.
Yeah.
And so the research question is then does
it help to break ties?
But that's something I haven't
empirically looked at yet,
but it would be the best suggestion I
have of of what to do next.
The other suggestion would be to look at
an underlying model to break ties that
that you.
So you know,
I would suggest ARM being our most
popular and a decently performing model.
So if you had a tie in CAM score and you
wanted to break the tie,
you could choose an underlying model that
you prefer that you to you to break the
tie similar to the industry rank.
It's it's not the same as getting the
order of.
from a float precision of a CAM score,
but it it would help break ties with
information that we think our model
scores are providing.
But Nathaniel, I mean,
you just said earlier,
basically there's no difference really
between, you know,
That's it.
a ninety-one versus a 90.
Definitely no difference, you know,
even if you had extra decimal places.
So why not say if we wanted the top
twenty-five,
I would say one reasonable option would
appear to be if twenty-five takes you to
like a tie at the end.
And you just sort of you take those ties
and you just spread out the weight you
You include everything.
were going to apply if it was going to be
equal to weight, right? Because it.
Exactly. In fact,
that's how we do our backtesting.
When we're choosing our deciles,
you get in the exact same,
the exact same situation,
and that's exactly how we do it.
It's basically, you know,
if your ties go past the top decile,
we will include more stocks that include
the score that the last company.
The decile would have, yeah.
Right.
All right. And sorry,
were those all the questions that we'd
Exactly.
sent? I think they were.
From, yeah, as far as I can remember.
Yeah, yeah.
So Darren,
you wanted question on recalibration of
models as well. Was that answered?
Uh, sure, we can ask that.
So just how often are you calibrating the
models?
So.
We're we're not they're yeah they're set
once once they've gotten in production
they're they're set in stone and anything
that was recalibrated will come out as a
version two more so than than the model.
So yeah never you know I I mentioned like
even with ARM it's we call it version 1.
1 honestly not even version 2 for the
intraday but they're both available.
We're never gonna change the model that
you're subscribing to.
OK,
I mean I I do have some other questions I
could ask,
but I want to make sure the team gets to
answer all their gets to ask all their
questions.
I had some questions as well.
Go for it, Ryan.
OK.
OK, great. So Nathan,
you showed you showed some quantitative
evidence to support that being alpha and
CAM earlier,
but I wanted to just go over that and and
sort of ask you.
What you?
What do you think is the best evidence of
there being alpha in CAM and how and how
can we see that easily? Is it, is it,
is it in these slides that you've got or
is there somewhere in workspace that that
we can that we can look at that?
Yeah,
what I would say is we have a white paper
where you know the detailed performance
of when the model came out.
So that would be through 2015,
2016 is all available in the white paper
and that is you know we get into more,
we have decile spread, sharp ratios,
information coefficients, all positive,
all outperforming the market over these
time periods.
In in the workspace,
I don't think you see that.
So it'd be the it'd be primarily the
white paper and then some sometimes we
update,
you know we we have other ones that are
updating performance through current if
possible.
We have monthly model reports where we
talk about how the the performance of the
model as well.
And then backtesting yourself,
really that's, you know,
generally speaking,
I don't think a client would ever take
one of our models,
take our word for it that it performs
well and incorporate it.
They'll perform their own backtests.
A lot of times how they incorporate their
models is different whether or not
they're just trading purely on the signal
or whether they're incorporating.
Into some much larger multi-factor model
or something like that.
So really the performance is published in
the white paper, everything,
it looks well,
it's continued to perform very well out
of sample,
anything plus after 2015 without a sample.
And then yeah,
your own backtest would be really the
only way you'd get comfortable with it,
I think.
And do you think the best way to back
test that is top decile, long,
bottom decile, short?
Is that is that what you would suggest?
That's how we do it in our white paper
because it's pretty standard,
you know and that and that's what we look
at.
But if you're looking at the information
coefficient,
it's just the rank correlation across the
whole universe, right.
So you know that is the metric that we
all besides just decile spread or sharp
ratio of the decile spread,
the information coefficient is really
important to us.
It's like you know how well is it sorting
the.
The the four returns every single month
end.
And is.
And just on that point though,
how far out would you look?
Like what is the time horizon you think
for can?
Right. But I I do monthly.
We do a monthly rebalance.
That's our that's our standard. Yeah.
Value signals are slower.
OK.
So the idea would be.
So like you know if you were longer term
our value signals were when they were
constructed they're optimized to a year
the the they're optimized to the forward
one year I CS whereas every everything
else is a little.
Bit slower value just takes time to
realize, right?
Germany.
And sorry,
what do I see is the idea you could,
you know,
at the end of every month you take the
CAM scores for the stocks in the universe
and then you actually see what was
realized during the month and you sort of
rank both and just look at the
correlation.
Is that what you're talking about?
Yeah, exactly.
The rank correlation between the future
returns and the the model core, yeah.
Yeah.
OK. And sorry, Ryan,
I'm just jumping in for a SEC here.
Yeah, go for it.
And so if somebody was going to run a
strategy using the CAM scores,
do you have a sense for like the optimal
frequency?
Like I know you were just talking about
like your back test,
you're doing the monthly rebalance,
but you know, is it much?
Less efficacious if if you did like
quarterly or annually or should you do it
weekly? Do you have any sense for that?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I So you know,
as you generally go shorter,
shorter time periods, it works well,
right?
Where like if you look at weekly or even
daily, the alphas look crazy, but it,
you know,
your turnover is crazy super high.
And I believe it would still work through
quarterly, possibly annually,
but monthly is really about the time
period we've targeted in our research to
optimize the model.
But I and so what's optimal in terms of
like you know transaction costs and
rebalancing and and and turnover,
I'm not sure.
But monthly is sort of what we always
target.
OK.
And one other quick question related to
that.
Do you have a sense for like when during
a month you should pull the CAM score
like it? Yes, you have.
No, no, I don't. I don't. So.
So we try to just hold that as fixed as
possible. We in our back test,
we always pull the score from close,
excuse me,
close on the last trading day of the
previous month and then we take the
position at close of the.
Next,
the first trading day of the subsequent
month.
And so we always when we're doing our
backtest,
we always have about 24 hour lag in the
model score between when you're taking
the position in terms of when in the
month or when in the when in the week
like what day to take positions.
I don't have any insight in that.
You know I think we I you can run studies.
Days like that where if if you rebalance
them Tuesdays like Mondays, Tuesdays,
Wednesdays,
Thursdays or Fridays and get drastically
different answers right as you're like
compounding over 20 years of weekly
returns,
I'm not sure there's there's real signal
there. So. So to be clear,
I don't have a good sense.
I think it should be relatively agnostic
of that of when you're.
Of when you're rebalancing,
but that would be up to you.
And would it surprise you,
like let's say you were rebalancing
quarterly that it does make a difference
if you pull the CAM scores at the end of
Mhm.
a given calendar quarter and then trade
at the beginning of like the next day
kind of thing as opposed to pulling the
score, I don't know,
Hello.
on the second month of 1/4.
Or like 15 days before the quarter.
And one thing I wondered is just maybe
some of your data is refreshing on like a
calendar quarter end basis. I don't know.
Yeah. So let me think about this.
The it's true that actuals are refreshing,
refreshing every quarter, right.
So if you get like an RV, for example,
if you're looking at the trailing one
year priced earnings,
you know quarterly you'll get a new
quarterly earnings.
Every quarter,
most of our models are faster than that
and so much as they corporate analyst
estimates.
And so estimates are being revised
consistently and our models are updated
consistently for those revisions.
As I mentioned,
the slower models tend to be valuations.
That's they do include like financials,
right?
In addition to the the estimates where
like price momentum is just looking at
price reaction on a day or a week et
cetera and then analyst revisions is
looking at you know analyst revising when
they when they revise. So it would.
I would. We try to be conservative,
which is why we have that 24 hour lag
between when we take the model score and
when we take the position.
But if you waited too long,
you know we're looking at, we're looking,
we're trying to predict forward one month
returns basically.
And so if you waited 2 weeks.
Here's a two week old score before you
took the position.
I think you'd be leaving, you know,
quite a bit of alpha on the table if you
waited that long,
if you took a two week old model score to
Got it. OK. Thanks. Back to you, Ryan.
take a position.
Sorry,
I just had one more question on the back
Yeah.
test before we move on, if that's OK.
I I just wanted and acknowledging that
Mhm.
you said that perhaps there's not a large
difference between a 90 score and 91
score,
but have you in your back testing
considered not equal weighting for your
top decile for example and putting?
Getting a larger weight on a company that
has a score of 100 versus 90 and have you
found that that's beneficial?
So in our the reason,
the only reason we don't do stuff like
that in our backtest is we try to be as
simple and clear as possible.
And so if we start getting into
strategies of differentially weighting
things,
then you can tweak them to get
performance that is maybe less comparable.
Over time or you know then then your the
performance is coming from the tweaking
of the signal rather than signal itself.
So what we try to do with our back test
is presented as clearly as simply as
possible. However,
I think a lot of our clients do do what
you're suggesting.
In fact a lot of our clients are are are
waiting the entire universe are using CAM.
To come up with weights across the entire
universe for their portfolios as opposed
to just top decile, bottom decile,
et cetera.
So I do think specifically I don't have
any information on that about how you
Good.
could overweight or underweight things in
your top and bottom decile to to to
squeak out even more performance.
I definitely think it's possible.
Yes.
But the the the only reason we don't in
any of these numbers is just to keep them
as simple as possible.
Thank you.
But it but it's a good idea. You know,
if you were the guys to look at him,
Mhm.
it's worth exploring something like that
for sure.
Nathan,
where I was going to go next was just on
this slide. Do you have,
do you have similar types of analysis for
different markets available?
Sure, we can come up with that.
This is just, this is just what I have.
And in fact, the white paper has it all.
You know, it breaks it down by country,
by region, by industry, by sector.
But the white paper's 10 years old, right?
This is up to date,
It is. I think I we, yeah, I hear you.
I think we might have,
so that's more interesting.
let me double check.
I think we do have a refreshed version of
the white paper or let me double check.
But I'm pretty sure we did refresh those
model, those results and if not,
we can certainly get them to you, yeah.
And also go on, go on, sorry.
So we.
Oh, I was gonna say,
so we do have them where it is.
I'd have to dig it up,
but I'm sure we do have refresh results,
That would be super useful. Uh,
and I see as well.
yeah.
Do you have that uh data too?
Um for across the different regions?
B.
Sure. Let me,
I don't have it on the slides here and
I'm not sure I could find the white paper
real fast, but yes,
it's in the white paper and we can we'll
get that as well, yeah.
Great.
Then I was going to ask you a sort of
conceptual question if if if you're in a
position where you we're going to create
a long only portfolio based on CAM scores
with a a beta one benchmark,
something like MSCI Acqui or or otherwise.
Mhm.
What?
What would you suggest would be using CAM?
What would you suggest would be the best
way to construct a portfolio to
outperform a benchmark like that?
I mean.
Well, well, going long only,
it's a question of how many stocks you
want to be taking positions in and and so
how far down the Cam score you go.
I think you know it like for example
simply something like a top quintile.
I guess my point is I think you can even
though we look at long, short decile,
I think the CAM scores still work.
Like you know the more stocks you add
that we still think are doing well.
You could take something like every CAM
score over 50.
I think that's going too far in terms of
taking long positions,
but something like a top quint.
Tile would.
There's no reason that doesn't work.
And and then your individual,
how you come up with the weights,
whether or not you're waiting by CAM
score would kind of be up to you. I mean,
I generally do equal weighting of
whatever universe I'm looking at.
So I don't. That's not a great answer.
Sorry, but you know,
I guess I don't have a lot of insight
Hmm.
into what is specifically exactly how our
clients do it.
I know they're not equal weighting
everything.
I know that they generally take more
positions or that's not true.
Sometimes I talk to clients that take
like 5 positions or something like that,
but.
You know.
Would you,
would you advise against just taking the
top decile, say of of of raw,
raw scores and investing in those
companies sort of absent any view,
any sort of looking at like sector
weights or anything else?
Yeah, no, not at all. I I I wouldn't.
I would not advise against that. In fact,
I think that's the probably the simplest
and easiest way to do it,
and I'd expect it to work well.
Would that not be dominated by the bets,
the sector and country bets, for example,
rather than the Cam scores?
You know, the CAM,
CAM as itself is region ranked,
so it shouldn't be dominated by any
geographical, I mean country possibly,
yes, geographically, region wise,
it should be relatively neutral.
And then I think there's not tons of bias
in these scores on a sector basis.
If if you specifically wanted to remain
sector neutral,
then obviously it wouldn't do that and
you could look at the, you know,
the sector scores, the industry scores.
So, so yeah, you're right,
it's it would there would be some bets on
country or sector.
Doing that and if that is unacceptable
then I would recommend taking the country
sector ranks and neutralize in that way.
And you mentioned that international
markets,
IEXUS is likely to be a more fruitful
hunting ground.
Do you have in particular any particular
markets that you think it's been
Mhm, mhm.
particularly strong in Cam?
Oh, geez. I mean, honestly,
across the board,
I remember it was a few years ago we were
looking at Latin Americans specifically
and they're all of our models were
working very, very well in Latin America.
I think it's just not that liquid of a of
a market, but they should work globally.
You know,
Japan's always the trickiest one.
Every single one of our models seems to.
It just see Japan seems a bit of an
anomaly in terms of how things work,
but but generally speaking,
they're all optimized for global
Sorry, Nathan,
what could you just elaborate on that
performance.
please?
Oh, why why Japan seems trickier?
Yeah, yeah. What? What? What do you mean?
It's a it's a bit different.
Overall,
if you if I'm looking at any back chest
of these model scores, you know over time,
generally speaking, you see Japan.
Just doesn't track with the the
performance of the model doesn't always
track relatively consistently with with
like global for example.
That's really all I mean.
It's not to say and I think probably it
works. I'd say they all work.
But you're not.
You're not saying it doesn't work.
Are you just saying it's higher tracking
error?
I'm not saying it doesn't work. Well, no,
I'm not saying it's higher higher
tracking error either. What I'm saying,
when I'm saying tracking,
I'm I'm talking about the performance
varies quite a different from an overall
global performance,
whereas if you were to look at like
performance in the US.
It looks very similar to performance
globally if you were to take global
portfolios. So they still work,
but they just generally,
I would generally speaking,
I'd say they don't work as well in Japan.
We'd have to look at, I'd have to pull up,
you know,
the backtest history to see exactly.
How well they don't work,
but I think they still work in Japan.
Do you get a sense on why why that's the
case?
I think Japan's always been just no.
So no,
I don't have a good sense of why that's
the case.
I think Japan trades on different factors.
You know,
Japanese investors tend to trade on
different factors.
I remember reading years ago there's in
Japanese companies, there's actually.
Being shareholder perks, right,
that can tend to skew valuations of
Japanese stocks.
Because if you're a shareholder,
you get things like discounts at retail
stores, et cetera, et cetera.
So I've always just thought of Japan as
being a.
Stranger market for that doesn't behave
the same as quant factors,
but I don't have a lot more detail than
that.
Nathan, I had a note from.
I noticed the part of the note from last
time is I think you would have said that
you thought that long only was a better
use of the models, the CAM models.
Maybe maybe we might have misquoted you,
Um.
but I just wanted to check what what you
meant by that, if that is.
What you believe?
So, so I don't believe that necessarily.
I think if you look at so,
so sometimes I'll I'll say that sometimes
the short portfolios,
the stocks in the short portfolios if
they're rebounding can affect performance,
right.
So you take short positions and these
stocks that look distressed for some
reason.
Or or battered for some reason tend to do
really well.
And so in years when when the long short
performance doesn't do well,
it's generally from the performance of
the short portfolios outperforming the
market.
So for example long short here we're
looking at US top 3000 2017 to 2020.
Were all negative and less than the
market returns.
But if I look at long only,
it was actually only two years where it
underperformed the market long only and
then long short or yeah,
long only it actually outperformed the
market in those.
Other two years,
because those were years where the short,
the short portfolios did too well and
performance suffered.
Do you think the predictive accuracy is
stronger on the long side,
IE the higher CAM scores rather than the
the the low numbers being sort of good
ideas for shorting?
I mean,
I I don't know if I'm saying that either.
Certainly in years or months or time
periods where distressed stocks are
rebounding hard,
that's not that predictably doesn't,
you know, isn't going to play out.
That being said,
I think our model is predictable
generally speaking.
Across broad ranges of time periods and
markets.
I have one final question,
but I was just gonna check if my
Yeah, so I was mhm.
colleagues had any others.
I I also had one one final question,
but Ryan, you go first.
OK. Yeah,
it was a conceptual question for you
about Alpha.
Nathan is what somebody could argue is
that with the price of a license to it's
online, people have access to to Cam and.
Therefore,
there's a lot of highly motivated people
in the market who want to generate alpha.
So if that if there was strong alpha in
in that,
then that in theory should be sort of
mined away quite quickly.
Mhm.
So what? What would you?
What would you say to those arguments?
Yeah,
all I can say is point to the track
record of performance and how it's still,
you know, it went live in 2015,
it's still performing that it,
you know that everyone talks about that,
right?
If everyone's trading the same signal,
the alpha gets arbitraged away that
happens.
But also analyst revisions has been
performed.
It's been a factor that's been performing
since the 70s and and still is performing.
So.
You know,
whether or not Alpha's getting mined away
because people are specifically
subscribing to our models,
I'm not sure we'd ever have enough market
share to to for that to happen.
We feel as though let's say someone's
trading like an **** supervision signal,
but not our model.
We feel as though we do enough in our
models that to.
Outperform whatever the standard factors
are that people would use and we've got
the we've got the data and the experience
doing that.
You know with ARM specifically like you
can look at a a simple analyst revisions
model that's just like changes in you
know.
One,
one year changes or one quarter changes
in earnings. But you know,
we look at every measure multiple time
periods, incorporate smart estimates,
et cetera.
And so we found like even though that
anomaly has been around since the 70s,
we're able to squeak a little bit more
juice out of it with the the data and the
smart estimates we have. Yeah, I've never,
I haven't seen.
You know that's that is a standard theory
that the the alpha gets arbitraged away,
but I haven't seen it.
And you know people are still trading
value, people are still trading momentum.
Analyst revisions has been an anomaly
since literally the early 70s when it was
discovered and tends seems to still work
so.
You know that if it's if you can
empirically it looks like it's working,
that's that's the best we can do.
Great, thank you.
Semi related question actually with with
Cam, what are you?
I mean what's the mission of of your team?
Because you have no ability to refine it
or improve it if it starts to degrade and
and not work.
Does that even matter to you guys as?
Are you like a a data provider,
a signal provider,
or are you actually incentivized to try
to create signals that outperform?
Yeah, no, we're well,
I mean our our personal goals are to
create signals that outperform.
That's that's what my career is.
We are not incentivized so much as we
financially reap reward if our models do
Yeah.
better that there's no set up like that.
What I'd say is we're trying to we've
we're always taking a very long-term view.
We're trying to get, you know,
I say these models work in broad strokes.
If you're using them,
there's sometimes you can use them well
to like explain a story in an individual
name, but that's very much, you know,
after the fact explanation and coming up
with a story. Our models, I think, work.
So on an on an individual name, I mean,
so like I don't think of our models as
being it tells you you should invest in
this one stock.
They work on a portfolio basis, right.
The whole idea is like large,
like law of large numbers.
We're taking portfolios.
What works is the positions in portfolios
based on these models.
Not an not an individual name.
You know you could.
There could be 100 stocks with a 99 CAM
score and some might not do so well.
But if you took a portfolio of all the
ninety-nines, you'd expect it to do well.
Mhm.
But I guess what what I'm what I mean by
this is if Cam suddenly stops working
So.
that would that matter to you because you
you might create you know another acronym
Mhm.
signal that does better and that's that's
OK.
Well.
So it's a bit different to like a a quant
researcher where their signals.
Suddenly starts to degrade that that has
a real impact on them.
Yeah, yeah.
So I mean we we what I'm what I was
That.
trying to get at is that we are we take a
a longer term,
a longer term view both in our back
testing and our research and what we how
we expect the model to perform going
forward.
So there could be down years like for
example showing you here with Tim that's
long only going back to the long short.
There were years where Tim was not
performing well and there we had lots of
research meetings during these years
about what is going on,
why is it not performing well. We don't,
you know,
ultimately we are cognizant of the fact
that we are.
But even then, Nathan,
you you might be able to explain why it's
not doing well,
but by definition you can't change
anything in CAM.
You could only create a new a new
That that's right.
combination signal.
That's right. That's right.
We we we would not change can we create a
Yeah.
new combo signal.
But but the idea is that whether or not
we think things have shifted
fundamentally and we don't expect it will
ever work again versus.
These are down years,
but we have confidence that we've haven't
over fit to particular time periods.
We've been look, you know,
20 plus years of history that it's worked
over and so we expect it to continue
working in the future even though it's
not necessarily working this month or
this year.
So the I guess the idea is that we're
relatively confident.
You know,
whether it's misguided confidence or not,
that these work over broad market regimes
and time periods and we're not trying to,
we're certainly interested in our keeping
a keeping a look when they're not
performing well,
but we would expect them to keep coming
back and working like we don't.
By and large,
we so far haven't gotten in the case
where you say this model really the the
underlying premise,
the economic rationale behind this model
no longer applies and and we don't think
anyone should be using it anymore.
We're we don't believe in that case.
We we think it's the exact opposite.
A.
Are we anywhere near a Cam 2.0 moment?
No, no, no, we're not.
OK, OK. If you were to put a guess on it,
how many years away would we be?
What is much,
much more likely besides coming up with
the CAM 2.
0 is coming up with more underlying
models and then giving you the ability to
come up with your own CAM via API.
So that that that's really what the push
is and and Analytics which we belong to
OK.
now we at Star Mind don't necessarily
agree with it.
Our clients like taking things over FTP
and relatively static models,
but the push is that these should be
slightly more dynamic and so much as the
end user has the ability to customize the
model and then request those scores via
API.
So a first iteration of that would be
something like you can get CAM scores.
over API and provide parameters for the
own weights that you want the CAM score
to come up with.
That would be much more likely than like
a CAM 2.
0 where we slightly tweak these weights,
add the new intraday arm,
replace Smart Holdings with Smart
Holdings Plus,
the new version that just came out.
I don't think
That would happen.
I don't think that would ever happen,
to be honest with you.
I think it's much more likely this API
route I talked in terms of what they're
pushing.
Right. Thanks, Nathan. Thanks, Julia,
everyone else on the call.
If there's no other questions,
we'll call it time and we'll let you know
if there's any any further requests to to
speak or for information. But thank you.
Thank you for your time today.
Yeah,
I know Rian's working on or Rian's
waiting on some more performance numbers,
updated performance numbers,
whether in the the white paper,
see if we have an updated white paper.
So I'll I'll work on getting you that and
yeah,
happy to ask answer any more questions as
they come up or take another call if you
guys would like. Sounds good to me.
Brilliant.
Yes. Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you so much. Bye.